Add documentation for seo-feature in ViUR (#433)
viur-framework/viur-core: docs/doc_tutorial/advanced/training_seo.rst

---
SEO
---

ViUR offers the possibility to make URLs SEO-friendly in multiple languages.

> For this you can define seo-identifier for each url component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this you can define seo-identifiers for each url component.
```

Module
------

> The modulename is the first part of an URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The module name is the first part of an URL.
```

> SEO-Identfiers has to be set as class-attribute ``seoLanguageMap`` of type ``dict[str, str]`` in the module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SEO-Identfiers have to be set as class-attribute ``seoLanguageMap`` of type ``dict[str, str]`` in the module.
```

> It maps a *language* to the acording *identifier*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It maps a *language* to the according *identifier*.
```

.. code-block:: python
    :name: module seo-map
    :caption: modules/myorders.py
    :emphasize-lines: 4-7

    from viur.core.prototypes import List

    class MyOrders(List):
        seoLanguageMap = {
            "de": "bestellungen",
            "en": "orders",
        }

> By default the module would be available under */myorders*, the lowercase modulename.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the module would be available under */myorders*, the lowercase module-name.
```

Reviewer: I don't think the comma is correct there. It would be if it was a German sentence...

> By default the module would be available under */myorders*, the lowercase modulename.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default the module would be available under */myorders*, the lowercase module name.
```
No hyphens or additional commas necessary.

> With the defined :attr:`seoLanguageMap`, it's now available under */de/bestellungen* and */en/orders*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the defined :attr:`seoLanguageMap`, it will become available as */de/bestellungen* and */en/orders*.
```

Great, this part is now user and robot friendly :)

Method
------

> The methodname is usually the second part of an URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The methodname is usually the second part of a URL.
```
and because I know people will fight me on thtis: https://www.techtarget.com/whatis/feature/Which-is-correct-a-URL-or-an-URL#:~:text=Although%20the%20U%20at%20the,use%20a%20rather%20than%20an.

SEO-Identfiers can be provided to the :meth:`exposed<core.exposed>` decorator of type ``dict[str, str]``.

> It maps a *language* to the acording *identifier*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It maps a *language* to the according *identifier*.
```

.. code-block:: python
    :name: method seo-map
    :caption: modules/myorders.py
    :emphasize-lines: 10-13

    from viur.core.prototypes import List
    from viur.core import exposed

    class MyOrders(List):
        seoLanguageMap = {
            "de": "bestellungen",
            "en": "orders",
        }

        @exposed({
            "de": "warenkorb",
            "en": "cart",
        })
        def view_the_cart(self):
            ...

> By default the method would be available under */myorders/view_the_cart*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the method would be available under */myorders/view_the_cart*.
```

Reviewer: I don't think the comma is correct there. It would be if it was a German sentence...

> With the defined `seoLanguageMap`, it's now available under */de/bestellungen/warenkorb* and */en/orders/cart*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the defined `seoLanguageMap`, it will become available as */de/bestellungen/warenkorb* and */en/orders/cart*.
```

Great, this part is now user and robot friendly as well :)

Entry
-----
The entrykey is usually used as third part of an URL if you use explicit the view method.
By default the :meth:`index<core.prototypes.list.List.index>` method
of the :class:`List prototype<core.prototypes.list.List>`
can handle keys or seo-indentifiers of an entry as well.

SEO-Identfiers of an entry (a :class:`Skeleton<core.skeleton.Skeleton>` instance) are defined in the
method :meth:`getCurrentSEOKeys<core.skeleton.Skeleton.getCurrentSEOKeys>` inside your Skeleton.

> This gives you the posibility to use whatever you want as identifier:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This gives you the possibility to use whatever you want as identifier:
```

A timestamp, a bone value, a composition of bones values, ….

.. code-block:: python
    :name: entry seo-map
    :caption: skeletons/myorders.py
    :emphasize-lines: 20-38

    from typing import Union, Dict

    from viur.core.skeleton import Skeleton
    from viur.core.bones import *

    class MyOrdersSkel(Skeleton):
        first_name = stringBone(
            descr="Customer's firstname",
        )
        last_name = stringBone(
            descr="Customer's lastname",
        )
        # [...]

        order_number = numericBone(
            descr="Ordernumber",
            required=True
        )

        @classmethod
        def getCurrentSEOKeys(cls, skelValues) -> Union[None, Dict[str, str]]:
            """Return the seo-identifiers for this entry.

            Return a dictionary of language -> SEO-Friendly key
            this entry should be reachable under.

>             The German and English identifiers are identically,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            The German and English identifiers are identical,
```

>             they consist the lastname (of the customer)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            they consist of the lastname (of the customer)
```

            and the (6 chars zero padded) order number.

            If the name is already in use for this module,
            the core will automatically append some random string
            to make it unique.
            """
            return {
                "de": f"{skelValues['last_name']}-{skelValues['order_number']:06}",
                "en": f"{skelValues['last_name']}-{skelValues['order_number']:06}",
            }

You can now reach your entries under */de/bestellungen/Mustermann-001234*

Great, we did it!

.. warning::

>     Keep in mind that you can guess the identifiers in this example very easy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Keep in mind that you can guess the identifiers in this example very easily.
```

>     Of course should orders not be visible by everyone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Of course, orders should not be visible to everyone.
```

>     Of course should orders not be visible by everyone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For obvious reasons orders should not be visible by everyone.
```
Use of "of course" here is a little impolite. Better to replace the whole phrase.

>     For obvious reasons orders should not be visible by everyone.

Author: ```suggestion
    For obvious reasons orders should not be visible to everyone.
```

>     Make this site noindexed and define a suitable :meth:`canView<core.prototypes.list.List.canView>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In this case, make the website noindexed and define a suitable
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In cases like this make the website noindexed and define a suitable :meth:`canView<core.prototypes.list.List.canView>`
```
I think this reads more naturally and also we don't need that comma.
